hey guys welcome to AR TV this is where
I break down albums for you guys
hopefully in an easy to understand
format and of course I try to influence
you to either check out the record or
skip it today I'm gonna be talking about
the third studio album by Canadian
musician electro popper lights this
album is called little machines don't
forget to check me out on Facebook
Twitter Instagram of course I am
all over those social media sites so if
you want to keep up with me and up to
date on all things music follow me on
there links in the description down
below I have been with lights since 2008
the self-titled debut EP fell in love
with that I was listening to it a ton on
MySpace I remember the track February
air was my profile song at one point so
I've always been decently pleased with
lights and her music and she actually
legally had her name changed to lights
she's married to the lead singer of
blessthefall and she's been continually
putting out music and even in the
acoustic format last year we got Siberia
acoustic which featured acoustic
renditions of her 2011 records Siberia
up we go was released as the lead single
from this record little machines back in
July I was really stoked on it after I
don't know maybe a couple of weeks of
listening right off the bat I had my
only complaint with it was the vocals Oh
sounding a little bit overly processed
but I quickly got over that and started
to fall for this song now I absolutely
love it I definitely see it making my
year-end top songs of the year list just
because of its infectious spirit it's
definitely got that mainstream pop
appeal because of the way the guitars
are toned there's a lot of sense I love
the simple on on this one it keeps it a
song very steady and on track and then
of course you've kind of got those
guitars that are very airy and the
background I've come to love the vocal
presentation on this one even if it is a
little bit overly processed Drew Pearson
is responsible for the production here
on this record and he's known for
working for artists like Katy Perry a
lot of other top 40 big-name
and of course meshing that with lights
traditional sound honestly I didn't
think it would be a very good mashup but
in the long run I'm very pleased with
the way this record turned out as a
whole there are definitely some songs
that don't really stand out to me as
much for example the end of the record
struggles a lot more than the first part
I think tracks like oil and water slow
down really kind of break the pace of
this one meteorites kind of feels like a
rehash of up we go in terms of its scent
line and sounding very similar in
production and the instrumentation on
that one and I thought that that was
kind of a cheap move there it's not all
bad towards the end of the record but
things are definitely more on the
mediocre side of the fence which is
definitely a shame how we do it tries to
have a little bit more fun as a pop song
but doesn't really push its way too far
into my head I mean it definitely is
very catchy and something that can be
considered ear warming even but it's not
exactly something I would consider a
long-lasting hit she's done a whole lot
better but getting to something that
actually really has a lot of momentum
and power to it we get to the opening
track portal this song is absolutely
haunting very very chilling I get chills
each time I've heard the song so far her
vocals on this one are just so straight
forward right there she's telling us a
story and it is so good if you cannot
appreciate this song then do not call
yourself a lights fan it reminds me sort
of of that song that Avril Lavigne did
for the Alice soundtrack titled Alice
and 2010 I thought that that was very
cool because I really like that song
lights doesn't really get into that same
vocal approach but it's just that it's
very dark and kind of has a brooding
feel about it I love the visceral nature
of this one it's just right there you
close your eyes and you dissipate into
the music and it is an incredible
experience I like the use of kind of the
80s sounding sense almost like Lights
meets churches on tracks like muscle
memory which is extremely well written I
the comparisons that are made throughout
that track it's kind of like science
meets pop and of course more of those 80
styles synth show up on tracks like
speeding and the same see I think that
speeding doesn't particularly well just
because of the way that that song flows
it's got a certain nuance to it that
actually works a little bit more than
the same see in my opinion those songs
are kind of in similar veins I talked
about a few tracks that I didn't really
like towards the end of the album
slowdown being one of those just because
of the fact that I feel like it's two
tried and true it plays it a little bit
too safe it's speaking of a relationship
where everything is just going out of
control lights can't get a handle on
things it's going south quickly and she
just wants to slow things down and just
kind of reel the relationship back in
before it turns into nothing it's not
that memorable it's not doing anything
to really put a unique identity on
itself so I'm saying skip that one the
album goes out on don't go home without
me and that one is a little bit more
genuine and heartfelt even though I am
hearing some like recycled lyrics in
there and that's really the case you
know a lot of times for artists they do
struggle for material and lights wrote
the majority of this record buying
herself and I very much respect that
running with the boys is the final song
that I want to talk about I think that
that one does a very good job of once
again appealing to the pop market it was
released as the third promotional single
off of little machines building hype
around the record and it definitely got
me excited it's kind of one of those
tracks that shows lights having fun on a
record and absolutely loved that overall
I'd say I had a pretty good experience
but this new lights record little
machines I think that there are some
flaws that I can't really look past some
of the tracks that I'm just not totally
onboard with a little bit of lackluster
instrumentation what I do like the way
that the synthesizers are toned I think
the mixing is done pretty well on the
majority of the tracks lights gave a
pretty good vocal performance all
throughout this thing and I can tell
that there was actually some effort put
into this so for me it's a 3.5 out of 5
if you've heard little machines
let me know your thoughts on it in the
comment section down below if you've
only heard the singles you can feel free
to let me know your thoughts on those in
the comment section down below and if
you're planning to check out the record
or not I'm planning to review all J
maybe a couple of other records within
the next week or so I've got a lot of
content coming to you guys I'm closing
in on my fifth anniversary with this
channel so make sure to subscribe
we're almost to 9000 subscribers thank
you so much for everyone who's been
sticking with me through the years hit
the like button on this video and I will
see you very soon
right here on a our TV beyond the
reviews